Welcome back to The Masterclass.
And after 18 videos so far, we've covered how to create a targeted resume, how to decode a job description,
how to create a cover letter and a thank you note where and how to effectively apply and how to let
jobs find you.
We've also talked about body language during interviews, and at this stage I think this practice exercise
would be fun and informative for you, so feel free to stop this or pause the video at any point you
feel is necessary and write down your thoughts about what you see on the screen.
And let's talk about it.
We talked about comfort versus discomfort previously, and everything you do, everything you project
and present at an interview can be divided into either comfort behavior or discomfort behavior.
Now, when you look at the screen, what do you see projected in these two pictures?
Is it comfort or discomfort and why?
It is discomfort because you can see that the guy on the screen in the picture he's covering his face
is covering his forehead with his hands.
That's usually a sign of shame.
So it's usually that expression manifests itself when something embarrassing has happened.
And the same with the next picture as well is he's not able to believe what's going on.
Or you can tell that it's not normal based on comfortable behavior.
Moving on to the next one.
Let's take a look at these two pictures here, side by side.
Can you spot the real smile from the fake smile?
And why.
If you answered that, the smile on the left is fake and the smile on the right is a real genuine smile.
Then you are correct.
How do we know that is when someone is truly smiling, when it's a genuine smile?
Then it's not the muscles.
In the cheeks, but it's the muscles near the eyes that contract and they reduce.
You cannot be genuinely smiling and have your eyes wide open at the same time.
So when you greet your interviewers, it's important you flash a genuine smile instead of a fake smile.
Because a modeling smile, although it looks nice, is not genuine.
And if you want to build a good relationship with your interviewer, then you want to show them a genuine
smile.
You want to show that you're actually enjoying the experience of being there.
What expression do you think this person here, the one second from the window is showing?
I can almost hear him say at the end of that expression.
Is that true?
Is it real?
Is your story real?
Whatever the other person is trying to tell it, that's disbelief.
That's surprise.
The lady closest to the camera is displaying happiness.
She has her thumb up.
She's got a smile on her face.
Although it's not genuine, she's posing for the camera, which is understandable because they're all
sitting here, presumably waiting for an interview.
But as you see these other people talking, then what can you gauge from this picture?
The person wearing the glasses, the one in the middle is probably telling a story and the others.
He has the attention of everyone else over there.
And they're all listening to him.
And it's presumably a story that could be hard to believe.
And that's why the expression on the faces of these two people, which is no surprise.
Their eyebrows are turned, their eyebrows are up.
And this expression, it's unmistakably surprise.
Let's take a look at another one.
What?
What expression do you see here?
Sadness.
If you answered sadness, then you are correct.
How do we know that?
It's sadness.
The muscles near the eyes are not tense, the jaw muscles are not tense.
And there's, of course, this side, the hand gesturing that shows that she is said.
But there's also the question of the eyebrows.
You cannot see them very clearly, but it's almost like if if the hair were known in the way, then
you would see the eyebrows pointed up this way.
What expression do you see here?
Nervousness.
If you answer nervousness, then you're correct.
The reason for that is you can see that there is no indicators on anywhere over here, but the eyes
and everything below it show fear.
So the eyes are wide open.
You can see that the pupils are dilated here.
And that happens when someone is afraid.
It's also because when you are in a position where you're afraid.
Then your eyes need to be extra aware of everything that's going on.
Because your brain needs to scan for all the signs of imminent danger.
And that's the reason I keep saying that.
Don't allow yourself.
Don't allow your brain to think that it is a negative situation because an interview really isn't.
If you look at it, the problem, you're there to solve the problem.
Let's solve the interview is and treat it as such.
Treat your interviewer with respect and consideration, but treat the interview itself as just another
step to getting your dream job.
And with this, we will stop this exercise.
Thank you so much for joining me.
I hope it was fun for you as well, and I hope that you were able to learn as much about body language
as it takes to succeed in an interview.
The takeaway from this would be that you start developing your own style of delivering your responses.
You start analyzing your own videos by being the only person in a Zoom call.
But make sure that you record all your responses.
Make sure you rehearse them and deliver them the right way.
So when the time is right, you don't need to prepare for it.
You already will be.
Thank you very much.
And let's take a look at another video, another practice fun video in the next section.